# Computer Networks

Below are some of the Good reads

* [Protocols](https://www.cse.iitk.ac.in/users/dheeraj/cs425/lec24.html)
  * Interior Gateway Protocols (IGP), Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP), Border Gateway Protocol(BGP)
  * Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
  * OSPF(Open Shortest Path First)
  * Shortest Path Algorithm
    * [Dijktstra's Algorithm:](https://www.cse.iitk.ac.in/users/dheeraj/cs425/lec25.html)
      * Note: Dijkstra's Algorithm is applicable only when cost of all the nodes is non-negative.
    * Bellman Ford's Algorithm
      * works on the premise that the information about far away nodes can be had from the adjoining links.
      * The algorithm works as follows.
        * Compute the link costs from the starting node to every directly connected node .
        * Select the cheapest links for every node (if there is more than one) .
        * For every directly connected node, compute the link costs for all these nodes.
        * Select the cheapest route for any node . 
        * Repeat until all nodes have been processed.
      * Every node should have the information about it's immediate neighbors and over a period of time we will have information about other nodes. Within n units of time , where n is the diameter of the network, every node will have the complete information. We do not need to be synchronized i.e. do not need to exchange information at the same time.
      * Routing algorithms based on Dijkstra's algorithm are called Link State Algorithms. Distance Vector Protocols are based on distributed Bellman's algorithm. In the former we are sending little information to many nodes while in the latter we send huge information to few neighbors.
  * Remote Procedure Call (RPC)
    * RPC comes under the Application-Oriented Design, where the client-server communication is in the form of Procedure Calls. We call the machine making the procedure call as client and the machine executing the called procedure as server. For every procedure being called there must exist a piece of code which knows which machine to contact for that procedure. Such a piece of code is called a Stub. On the client side, for every procedure being called we need a unique stub. However, the stub on the server side can be more general; only one stub can be used to handle more than one procedures. Also, two calls to the same procedure can be made using the same stub.
  * [JSON-RPC is a stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol.](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification)
  * [REST with RPC](https://medium.com/@tlhunter/is-it-time-to-replace-rest-with-rpc-1304379456a2)
  * RPC Programming
      * RPC Programming can be thought in multiple levels. At one extreme, the user writing the application program uses the RPC library. He/she need not have to worry about the communication through the network. At the other end there are the low level details about network communication. To execute a remote procedure the client would have to go through a lot of overhead e.g., calling XDR for formatting of data, putting it in output buffer, connecting to port mapper and subsequently connecting to the port through which the remote procedure would communicate etc. The RPC library contains procedures that provide almost everything required to make a remote procedure call. The library contains procedures for marshaling and unmarshaling of the arguments and the results respectively. Different XDR routines are available to change the format of data to XDR from native, and from XDR to native format. But still a lot of overhead remains to properly call the library routines. To minimize the overhead faced by the application programmer to call a remote procedure a tool named rpcgen is devised which generates client and server stubs. The stubs are generated automatically, thus they have loose flexibility e.g., the timeout time, the number of retransmissions are fixed. The program specification file is given as input and both the server and client stubs are automatically generated by rpcgen. The specification file should have a .x extension attatched to it. It contains the following information:-
        * constant declarations ,
          global data (if any),
          information about all remote procedures ie.
          procedure argument type ,
          return type
  *  Computer Networks

